=encoding utf8

=begin comment

 This file is Copyright (C) Alex Smith 2014-2015

 Parts of this file that quote other license agreements verbatim are
 under the same licenses as those licenses.  Those licenses which even
 have an explicit license agreement (which, in the case of the
 licenses in this file, is embedded into the licenses themselves)
 typically allow redistribution of the license, but only without
 modifications (here interpreted as allowing embedding into a larger
 document, including reversible changes to the sequence of bytes that
 make up the license, that do not lose or hide any meaning).  When a
 license does not have an explicit license agreement, I'm assuming
 that the typical legal requirement to preserve copyright and license
 notices also carries implicit permission to copy those notices (so as
 to be able to preserve them).  The copyright statement above does not
 apply to verbatim quotes of other licenses, and is not intended to
 challenge their copyright status.
 
 As for parts of this file that are not quoting other license
 agreements, I hereby license anyone to copy and distribute them,
 either verbatim or with modifications, so long as the authorship of
 modified copies is not misrepresented.
 
 THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THIS COPYRIGHT INFORMATION FILE.  IT HAS NOT
 BEEN THOROUGHLY CHECKED FOR ACCURACY, AND MAY WELL CONTAIN MISTAKES.
 USE IT AT YOUR OWN RISK.

=end comment

=for aimake eula

=head1 NetHack Fourk License Information

The NetHack Fourk engine and interface are licensed under the NetHack
General Public License (NGPL). This license gives you the right to
redistribute and modify it, so long as you obey certain terms and
conditions. The full text of the NGPL is given later in this document.

NetHack Fourk also uses certain libraries: libuncursed, zlib,
libjansson, and (if you install the GUI support) SDL2 and
libpng. (libpng is also used by the tileset compiler.) libuncursed is
multi-licensed, offering the NGPL as one possible license, and is used
here under the NGPL. The other libraries have other licenses, given
later in this document.

Installing GUI support allows you to play in a "fake terminal", rather
than just on the console. If you install a tileset, it will also allow
you to play with a map represented by "tiles" images rather than
text. One of these tilesets, "Slash'EM", is licensed under the
NGPL. The others have licenses of their own, given later in this
document.

The documentation is also under this license (except where it quotes
existing licenses verbatim), and © Alex Smith 2013, 2014, 2015.

For a more detailed version of this document, including the individual
copyright status of every source file, see the "copyright-details.txt"
file after installation (in the "nhfourk\doc" subdirectory of your
Program Files directory). You can find this file as "license.rtf" in
the same subdirectory after installation.

There is B<no warranty> for NetHack Fourk or any of its component parts.

=head2 NetHack General Public License

The NetHack 4 engine and interface are © Stichting Mathematisch
Centrum, Amsterdam, 1985; © Alex Smith 2010-2015; © Daniel Thaler
2011-2012; and many other contributors. The full list of contributors
is available in the "history" document, viewable in-game.

The tiles compiler is also under this license, and © Alex Smith 2014;
© Andrew Apted <ajapted@users.sourceforge.net> 2002; © Slash'EM
Development Team 2003; © Stichting Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam,
1985; © Robert Patrick Rankin 1991.

The Slash'EM tileset and the font used by the fake tiles port are also
under this license. The full list of artists is unknown, but believed
to include: Warwick Allison; Mitsuhiro Ikatura; Haruko Numata; Edger;
ZMYDaino; Wan'ichi; Tatsuya; Kelly Youngblood; Paul Pliska; John
Harris; Andrew Walker; and Alex Smith. Known copyright dates range
from 2000 to 2014. For more information, see the "copyright.txt" file
after installation.

                     NETHACK GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                     (Copyright 1989 M. Stephenson)
 
                (Based on the BISON general public license,
                    copyright 1988 Richard M. Stallman)
 
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
 license, but changing it is not allowed.  You can also use this wording to
 make the terms for other programs.
 
   The license agreements of most software companies keep you at the mercy of
 those companies.  By contrast, our general public license is intended to give
 everyone the right to share NetHack.  To make sure that you get the rights we
 want you to have, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny you
 these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.  Hence this license
 agreement.
 
   Specifically, we want to make sure that you have the right to give away
 copies of NetHack, that you receive source code or else can get it if you
 want it, that you can change NetHack or use pieces of it in new free
 programs, and that you know you can do these things.
 
   To make sure that everyone has such rights, we have to forbid you to
 deprive anyone else of these rights.  For example, if you distribute copies
 of NetHack, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have.  You
 must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code.  And you
 must tell them their rights.
 
   Also, for our own protection, we must make certain that everyone finds out
 that there is no warranty for NetHack.  If NetHack is modified by someone
 else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what they have is
 not what we distributed.
 
   Therefore we (Mike Stephenson and other holders of NetHack copyrights) make
 the following terms which say what you must do to be allowed to distribute or
 change NetHack.
 
 
                         COPYING POLICIES
 
   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of NetHack source code as
 you receive it, in any medium, provided that you keep intact the notices on
 all files that refer to copyrights, to this License Agreement, and to the
 absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the NetHack
 program a copy of this License Agreement along with the program.
 
   2. You may modify your copy or copies of NetHack or any portion of it, and
 copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above
 (including distributing this License Agreement), provided that you also do the
 following:
 
     a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
     changed the files and the date of any change; and
 
     b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in
     whole or in part contains or is a derivative of NetHack or any part
     thereof, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties on terms
     identical to those contained in this License Agreement (except that you
     may choose to grant more extensive warranty protection to some or all
     third parties, at your option)
 
     c) You may charge a distribution fee for the physical act of
     transferring a copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection
     in exchange for a fee.
 
   3. You may copy and distribute NetHack (or a portion or derivative of it,
 under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
 Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:
 
     a) accompany it with the complete machine-readable source code, which
     must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,
 
     b) accompany it with full information as to how to obtain the complete
     machine-readable source code from an appropriate archive site.  (This
     alternative is allowed only for noncommercial distribution.)
 
 For these purposes, complete source code means either the full source
 distribution as originally released over Usenet or updated copies of the
 files in this distribution used to create the object code or executable.
 
   4. You may not copy, sublicense, distribute or transfer NetHack except as
 expressly provided under this License Agreement.  Any attempt otherwise to
 copy, sublicense, distribute or transfer NetHack is void and your rights to
 use the program under this License agreement shall be automatically
 terminated.  However, parties who have received computer software programs
 from you with this License Agreement will not have their licenses terminated
 so long as such parties remain in full compliance.
 
 
 Stated plainly:  You are permitted to modify NetHack, or otherwise use parts
 of NetHack, provided that you comply with the conditions specified above;
 in particular, your modified NetHack or program containing parts of NetHack
 must remain freely available as provided in this License Agreement.  In
 other words, go ahead and share NetHack, but don't try to stop anyone else
 from sharing it farther.

=head2 zlib License

This license is used by zlib (© 1995-2012 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark
Adler) and SDL2 (© 1997-2012 Sam Lantinga <slouken@libsdl.org>).

 This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
 warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
 arising from the use of this software.
 
 Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
 including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
 freely, subject to the following restrictions:
 
 1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
    claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
    in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
    appreciated but is not required.
 2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
    misrepresented as being the original software.
 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

=head2 The Expat License

This license is used by libjansson, which is © 2009-2011 Petri
Lehtinen <petri@digip.org>.

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
 of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
 in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
 to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
 copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
 furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
 
 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
 all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
 OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
 THE SOFTWARE.

=head2 The libpng Copyright and License

This is the copyright and license situation for libpng:

 This copy of the libpng notices is provided for your convenience.  In case of
 any discrepancy between this copy and the notices in the file png.h that is
 included in the libpng distribution, the latter shall prevail.
 
 COPYRIGHT NOTICE, DISCLAIMER, and LICENSE:
 
 If you modify libpng you may insert additional notices immediately following
 this sentence.
 
 This code is released under the libpng license.
 
 libpng versions 1.2.6, August 15, 2004, through 1.5.10, March 29, 2012, are
 Copyright (c) 2004, 2006-2011 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
 distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.2.5
 with the following individual added to the list of Contributing Authors
 
    Cosmin Truta
 
 libpng versions 1.0.7, July 1, 2000, through 1.2.5 - October 3, 2002, are
 Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
 distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.0.6
 with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors
 
    Simon-Pierre Cadieux
    Eric S. Raymond
    Gilles Vollant
 
 and with the following additions to the disclaimer:
 
    There is no warranty against interference with your enjoyment of the
    library or against infringement.  There is no warranty that our
    efforts or the library will fulfill any of your particular purposes
    or needs.  This library is provided with all faults, and the entire
    risk of satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy, and effort is with
    the user.
 
 libpng versions 0.97, January 1998, through 1.0.6, March 20, 2000, are
 Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
 distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.96,
 with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:
 
    Tom Lane
    Glenn Randers-Pehrson
    Willem van Schaik
 
 libpng versions 0.89, June 1996, through 0.96, May 1997, are
 Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger
 Distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.88,
 with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:
 
    John Bowler
    Kevin Bracey
    Sam Bushell
    Magnus Holmgren
    Greg Roelofs
    Tom Tanner
 
 libpng versions 0.5, May 1995, through 0.88, January 1996, are
 Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.
 
 For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Contributing Authors"
 is defined as the following set of individuals:
 
    Andreas Dilger
    Dave Martindale
    Guy Eric Schalnat
    Paul Schmidt
    Tim Wegner
 
 The PNG Reference Library is supplied "AS IS".  The Contributing Authors
 and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied,
 including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of
 fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc.
 assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary,
 or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG
 Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.
 
 Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
 source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject
 to the following restrictions:
 
 1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.
 
 2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and must not
    be misrepresented as being the original source.
 
 3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from any
    source or altered source distribution.
 
 The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without
 fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to
 supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this
 source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be
 appreciated.

=head2 Gnu Free Documentation License

  Version 1.2, November 2002
  
    Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
    51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
    of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
  
  0. PREAMBLE
  
  The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
  functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to
  assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it,
  with or without modifying it, either commercially or
  noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author
  and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
  considered responsible for modifications made by others.
  
  This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
  works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It
  complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
  license designed for free software.
  
  We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
  software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
  program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
  software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it
  can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
  whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License
  principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
  
  1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
  
  This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that
  contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be
  distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a
  world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that
  work under the conditions stated herein. The "Document", below, refers
  to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee,
  and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy, modify
  or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright
  law.
  
  A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
  Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
  modifications and/or translated into another language.
  
  A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
  the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
  publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall
  subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall
  directly within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in
  part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain
  any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical
  connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
  commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
  them.
  
  The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
  are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
  that says that the Document is released under this License. If a
  section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not
  allowed to be designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero
  Invariant Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant
  Sections then there are none.
  
  The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
  as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
  the Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be
  at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
  
  A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
  represented in a format whose specification is available to the
  general public, that is suitable for revising the document
  straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
  pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
  drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
  for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
  to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
  format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart
  or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not
  Transparent. An image format is not Transparent if used for any
  substantial amount of text. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called
  "Opaque".
  
  Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
  ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
  or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple
  HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of
  transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats
  include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by
  proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
  processing tools are not generally available, and the
  machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word
  processors for output purposes only.
  
  The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
  plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
  this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in
  formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
  the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,
  preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
  
  A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose
  title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following
  text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a
  specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements",
  "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".) To "Preserve the Title"
  of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a
  section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.
  
  The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which
  states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty
  Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this
  License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other
  implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has
  no effect on the meaning of this License.
  
  2. VERBATIM COPYING
  
  You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
  commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
  copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
  to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no
  other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use
  technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
  copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
  compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough
  number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
  
  You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
  you may publicly display copies.
  
  3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
  
  If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have
  printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the
  Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the
  copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
  Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on
  the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you
  as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the
  full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
  visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying
  with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title
  of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as
  verbatim copying in other respects.
  
  If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
  legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
  reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
  pages.
  
  If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
  more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
  copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
  a computer-network location from which the general network-using
  public has access to download using public-standard network protocols
  a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added
  material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably
  prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in
  quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus
  accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the
  last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your
  agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.
  
  It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
  Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to
  give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the
  Document.
  
  4. MODIFICATIONS
  
  You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
  the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
  the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
  Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
  and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
  of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
  
      A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title
         distinct from that of the Document, and from those of previous
         versions (which should, if there were any, be listed in the
         History section of the Document). You may use the same title as
         a previous version if the original publisher of that version
         gives permission.
  
      B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or
         entities responsible for authorship of the modifications in the
         Modified Version, together with at least five of the principal
         authors of the Document (all of its principal authors, if it
         has fewer than five), unless they release you from this
         requirement.
  
      C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
         Modified Version, as the publisher.
  
      D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
  
      E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
         adjacent to the other copyright notices.
  
      F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license
         notice giving the public permission to use the Modified Version
         under the terms of this License, in the form shown in the
         Addendum below.
  
      G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant
         Sections and required Cover Texts given in the Document's
         license notice.
  
      H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
  
      I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title,
         and add to it an item stating at least the title, year, new
         authors, and publisher of the Modified Version as given on the
         Title Page. If there is no section Entitled "History" in the
         Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and
         publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add
         an item describing the Modified Version as stated in the
         previous sentence.
  
      J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document
         for public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and
         likewise the network locations given in the Document for
         previous versions it was based on. These may be placed in the
         "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work
         that was published at least four years before the Document
         itself, or if the original publisher of the version it refers
         to gives permission.
  
      K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
         Preserve the Title of the section, and preserve in the section
         all the substance and tone of each of the contributor
         acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
  
      L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered
         in their text and in their titles. Section numbers or the
         equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
  
      M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may
         not be included in the Modified Version.
  
      N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled
         "Endorsements" or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
  
      O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.
  
  If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
  appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
  copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
  of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the
  list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license
  notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
  
  You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
  nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
  parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
  been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
  standard.
  
  You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
  passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
  of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of
  Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
  through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already
  includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
  by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
  you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
  permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
  
  The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
  give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
  imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
  
  5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
  
  You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
  License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
  versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
  Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
  list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
  license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
  
  The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
  multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
  copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
  different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
  adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
  author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique
  number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
  Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
  
  In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History"
  in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled
  "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements",
  and any sections Entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections
  Entitled "Endorsements."
  
  6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
  
  You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other
  documents released under this License, and replace the individual
  copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy
  that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules
  of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all
  other respects.
  
  You may extract a single document from such a collection, and
  distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a
  copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this
  License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that
  document.
  
  7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
  
  A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
  and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
  distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright
  resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights
  of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works
  permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License
  does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not
  themselves derivative works of the Document.
  
  If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
  copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of
  the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
  covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the
  electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic
  form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the
  whole aggregate.
  
  8. TRANSLATION
  
  Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
  distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section
  4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
  permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
  translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
  original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
  translation of this License, and all the license notices in the
  Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include
  the original English version of this License and the original versions
  of those notices and disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between
  the translation and the original version of this License or a notice
  or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.
  
  If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements",
  "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve
  its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual
  title.
  
  9. TERMINATION
  
  You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document
  except as expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt
  to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and
  will automatically terminate your rights under this License. However,
  parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
  License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
  parties remain in full compliance.
  
  10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
  
  The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the
  GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions
  will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in
  detail to address new problems or concerns. See
  http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.
  
  Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version
  number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version
  of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the
  option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified
  version or of any later version that has been published (not as a
  draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not
  specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
  ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

=head2 Copyright of the DawnLike Tileset

The DawnLike tileset is © Andrew Rios 2014 (art), © Alex Smith 2014
(tile selection and organization). The tiles are licensed under a mix
of Creative Commons licenses: Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
Unported (tiles originally from an older version, DawnHack), and
Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported (tiles from
DawnLike). Here's what the artist had to say about the copyright
status:

 Dawnlike is registered under a CC-BY-SA 3.0 license, meaning that you
 are free to redistribute or edit any part of this tileset as long as
 you do not take the credit for it. I cannot stop you from using this
 tileset commercially, so feel free to sell any games using Dawnlike.
 
 If you use this tileset you must accredit DawnBringer. That mad
 color-bending genius came up with the palette this entire pack lives
 on. Without his palette, I would probably never would have even
 finished DawnHack. As for crediting me, I have a unique
 request. Inside "Reptiles.png" you will find a Platino sprite. If you
 use Dawnlike, you MUST use this sprite and hide him very well!

You can view the Creative Commons licenses in question at
L<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/> (Attribution) and
L<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/> (Attribution-Share
Alike), or by sending a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street,
Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94105, USA.

=head2 Copyright of the RLTiles Tileset

The version of the RLTiles tileset in NetHack Fourk was produced by
Raz in 2014 and 2015, with some coding by Alex Smith. It was derived
from the original version of RLTiles, which had the following license
information:

 You can use these tilesets in your program freely. Please include the
 following text in your distribution package, either as a separate
 file or incorpolated into your license notice document. The fourth
 line is optional: Delete it if you have not modified the tiles. If
 you have modified some of the tiles, replace "YOURNAME" by your name.
 
     Part of (or All) the graphic tiles used in this program is the public
     domain roguelike tileset "RLTiles".
     Some of the tiles have been modified by Raz.
     
     You can find the original tileset at:
     http://rltiles.sf.net

The list of contributors to the original RLTiles was:

 Denzi
 =========
 dwarf lord, watchman, watch captain, page, raven,
 *About half of the Dungeon Crawl tiles*
 *Allmost all the player tiles*
 
 Alex Korol
 =========
 dc/abomination*.bmp, 64x64 stairs tile, 64x64 swamp dragon
 
 Edger
 =========
 Cerberus
 
 Wan-ichi
 =========
 werejackal, werewolf, leocrotta, wumpus,
 titanothere, baluchitherium, wererat
 
 So-Miya
 =========
 chickatrice, pyrolisk, vampire, vampire mage
 storm giant, silver dragon scale mail, shimmering dragon scale mail
 silver dragon scales, shimmering dragon scales, baby shimmering dragon
 shimmering dragon, baby silver dragon, silver dragon
 master mind flayer, leather cloak, magcal explosions
 
 Haruko Numata
 =========
 rope golem, leather golem, flesh golem, clay golem
 stone golem, horned devil,
 Lord Carnarvon, Pelias, Shaman Karnov, Hippocrates,
 King Arthur, Arch Priest, Master of Thieves, Norn, Wizard of Balance,
 low boots, iron shoes, high boots, combat boots, jungle boots,
 hiking boots, mud boots
 
 Tatsuya
 =========
 knight(3D), samurai(3D), barbarian(3D)
 hill giant(3D), dragons(3D)
 
 from AllegroHack (Kelly Youngblood, Paul Pliska, John Harris)
 =========
 gas spore, flaming sphere, shocking sphere
 
 Dainokata
 =========
 warg, manes, shrieker,
 water moccasin, elf zombie,human zombie,
 straw golem, iron golem, wererat, shopkeeper,
 guard, iguana, caveman, healer, rogue,
 tourist, dart, aklys, elven bow,
 orcish bow, elven cloak,
 orcish cloak, opera cloak, sack,
 lock pick, lamp, blindfold, towel,
 leash, stethoscope, tinning kit, figurine,
 cram ration, food ration, statue, alter, sink
 
 Zmy
 =========
 dog, large dog, bugbear, rothe, ape, owlbear,
 skeleton, Woodland-elf, Green-elf, Grey-elf,
 Croesus, marilith, vrock, hezrou, nalfeshnee, Orcus,
 Demogorgon, cavewoman, Elwing, dwarvish mattock,
 pickaxe, Kop Lieutenant, Kop Sergeant, elf-lord
 Oracle, Archon, Snake, pyton, cobra, Earendil

=head2 Copyright of the Geoduck Tileset

The Geoduck tileset is copyright Robert M. Cook, distributed from
www.geoduckthings.net, with official permission to redistribute the
images "as long as I get all the credit, fame and glory."  For
official copies of the tileset, see www.geoduckthings.net.  The
Geoduck tile set was created with JASC Inc.'s Paint Shop Pro.

See also the following usenet thread:
https://bilious.alt.org/rgrn/?132403,132408,132409,132411,132412,132414-132417
